
# OASIS TC Meeting – July 15, 2025

**Date:** July 15, 2025  
**Time:** 7:00 AM PDT / 10:00 AM EDT / 14:00 UTC / 16:00 CET  

**Chairs:**  
- Bryan Bortnick (IBM)  
- Lisa Bobbitt (Cisco)  
- Fotis Psallidas (Microsoft)  

**Secretary:**  
- Carlyn Connolly [subbing for Kristina Podnar] (Data &amp; Trust Alliance)  

**Meeting Recording:**  
[Watch recording on Zoom](https://thecge-net.zoom.us/rec/share/yUihzeukt1SnztfiLUQ1NinYvTDQG3eKDuxJcvjoPLvR0WNwAJizFq3UZl0D92k.yNyklMZzR9ba5rz0)  
**Passcode:** `as72p?NJ`  

**Presentation:**  
[View presentation on Google Drive](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wfPjnBcwonfBm-cLJzrwP8dSXLwflRACV0rbtzTC0S0/edit?usp=sharing)

---

## Attendance

| Given Name | Family Name | Affiliation              | Roles                    | Present |
|:-----------|:------------|:-------------------------|:-------------------------|:--------|
| Andy       | Hannah      | Blue Street Data         | Voting Member            | No      |
| Asmae      | Mhassni     | Intel                    | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Babak      | Jahromi     | Microsoft                | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Bryan      | Bortnick    | IBM                      | Voting Member, Co-Chair  | Yes     |
| Bryan      | Kyle        | IBM                      | Voting Member            | Yes     |
| Carlyn     | Connolly    | Data & Trust Alliance    | Voting Member            | Yes     |
| David      | Kemp        | National Security Agency | Voting Member            | Yes     |
| Fotis      | Psallidas   | Microsoft                | Voting Member, Co-Chair  | Yes     |
| Greg       | Ott         | National Security Agency | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Jassim     | Happa       | Royal Holloway University| Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Jautau     | White       | Microsoft                | Voting Member            | No      |
| Jenae      | Minter      | National Security Agency | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| John       | Sabo        | Independent Consultant   | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Judith     | Furlong     | Dell Technologies        | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Kate       | Gallo       | Blue Street Data         | Voting Member            | Yes     |
| Kelsey     | Schulte     | Intel                    | Voting Member            | Yes     |
| Kirk       | Dunkelberger| Peraton                  | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Kristina   | Podnar      | Data & Trust Alliance    | Voting Member, Secretary | No      |
| Lisa       | Bobbitt     | Cisco                    | Voting Member, Co-Chair  | Yes     |
| Mic        | Bowman      | Intel                    | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Michele    | Drgon       | DataProbity              | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Peter      | Koen        | Microsoft                | Non-Voting Member        | No      |
| Roman      | Zhukov      | Red Hat                  | Voting Member            | No      |
| Saira      | Jesani      | Data & Trust Alliance    | Non-Voting Member        | Yes     |
| Stefan     | Hagen       | Individual               | Voting Member            | Yes     |
| Wyatt      | Schroth     | Blue Street Data         | Voting Member            | Yes     |

More than 7 (10) of the 14 voting members were present. Thus, the meeting was quorate.

## Agenda

1. PRs since last meeting
2. Deep dive: Metadata schema review
3. Subcommittee updates  

---

## Discussion Summary

### Comments and Pull Requests

There were no new comments since the last meeting.
Stefan merged a PR containing past meeting minutes, underscoring the importance of preserving meeting time for discussion.
A draft PR was submitted, though not yet complete.

### Deep dive: Metadata Schema Review

#### Data Provenance Schema Walkthrough

Stefan shared his screen to present the Data Provenance Schema.
He emphasized several guiding principles: adhering to standard schema languages (favoring JSON for the current exploration),
using plain-English keys free from coding syntax, and ensuring tighter constraints for automation and validation.
He advocated for flexible schema design that supports versioning and allows selective enforcement via prefixed extensions.

To support review, Stefan provided the muuntuu transforms tool publicly for toggling between JSON and YAML to minimize stylistic differences during collaboration.
He walked through several technical considerations, including top-level field mapping, API headers,
UUID usage, metadata referencing, format validation, and flexible country/language identifiers.
He recommended using $comment fields for now to indicate those parts that are not yet completed and give hints on what is done or needs to be done.
A proxy schema was suggested to enforce mandatory format validation to strengthen interoperability.

David Kemp responded that these issues were important and should be guided by stakeholder needs.
He supported the use of type-based filtering and raised the role of "helpers" as external tools and not as schema elements.
Stefan responded that the heplers postfixed keys just indicate union types or variants, that offer in the same place for the same purpose variations of
vocabulary and strictness to foster data quality (not forcing producers to fill in fields in a way they do not know how to fill in);
the keys/names are open for better naming though.
A lively discussion followed on the risks of inconsistency (e.g., country code variations like "DE" vs. "Germany").
Lisa and Bryan echoed the importance of standardization for automation. Bryan proposed using dropdowns or external lists for standardized values.

#### Schema Format Considerations

David pointed out the challenges of translating between formats (e.g., XML/JSON), noting D&TA’s tooling uses XML.
Stefan expressed a preference to focus first on optimizing for the format—pair - JSON and YAML - before developing conversions.
He reminded of his already stated expectation, that using a generic information modeling language is good,
but will not spare the TC from working out all special directly supported formats; in his experience,
any specific format will require characteristic optimizations to be useful in production.
If these were not delivered by the specification that would leave the ecosystem in the rain and surely lead to interoperability problems.

### Subcommittee Updates

- **Executive brief**: Bryan emphasized that feedback is still needed on the draft.
  A vote may be possible at the next meeting.
  The logo has been finalized and shared.
  Lisa encouraged comments in the coming week.
- **Use case document**: Lisa is finalizing the current set and will solicit comments and additional contributions next week.
  Once use cases and their corresponding value statements are aligned, the group expects to quickly integrate the outbound content.

---

## Actions and Next Steps
  
- **Use case document**:  Lisa to finalize this Friday and send out for comments and additional contributions next week.
- **Executive brief**: Members to review and provide comments ahead of the next meeting; a vote may occur.
- **Metadata schema**: All members to review Stefan’s walkthrough and proposed changes, including optionality, key ordering, and format validation.
  Discussion to continue regarding format prioritization (JSON/YAML vs. XML), and stakeholder input to be gathered.
  Stefan to continue refining schema and may present another walkthrough at an upcoming meeting.
