
# Data Provenance Standards Technical Committee Meeting

**Meeting Date:** May 20, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM EDT (14:00 UTC / 16:00 CET / 7:00 AM PDT)

**Chairs:**  
- Bryan Bortnick (IBM)  
- Lisa Bobbitt (Cisco)  
- Fotis Psallidas (Microsoft)

**Secretary:**  
- Kristina Podnar (Data & Trust Alliance)

**Presentation Slides:**  
[View Slide Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18VMo97cQxQIKY-09TsOuhtwcHFyCdPnx/view?usp=sharing)

**Meeting Recording:**  
[Zoom Recording](https://thecge-net.zoom.us/rec/share/WGzscNRbStpsUNSDtkdElD5N18GdE6UiFRzRrRULhTbBTv8-b0xVz1wBCfufQGRW.PT0Hy327lVBjaTCS)  
Passcode: `a0P3=w*%`

## I. Call to Order and Welcome

- Fotis welcomed participants and reviewed the agenda
- Kristina confirmed recording was in progress (non-public)
- Meeting was called to order. Quorum was confirmed with 16 members present, 13 with voting rights, satisfying the requirement of 10 voting members

## II. Agenda

- Welcome  
- Motions and updates since last meeting  
- Use case development  
- Executive brief  
- Promotion and adoption of our work  
- Metadata elements  
- Modeling and JADN specification  
- Wrap-up and next steps

## III. Participants

| Given Name | Family Name | Affiliation              | Role                     | Present |
|:-----------|:------------|:-------------------------|:-------------------------|:--------|
| Andy       | Hannah      | Blue Street Data         | Voting Member            | Present |
| Bryan      | Bortnick    | IBM                      | Voting Member            | Present |
| Bryan      | Kyle        | IBM                      | Voting Member            | Present |
| Carlyn     | Connolly    | D&TA                     | Voting Member            | Present |
| David      | Kemp        | National Security Agency | Voting Member            | Present |
| Fotis      | Psallidas   | Microsoft                | Voting Member, Co-Chair  | Present |
| Jenaye     | Minter      | Unknown                  | Non-Voting Member        | Present |
| Kate       | Gallo       | Blue Street Data         | Voting Member            | Present |
| Kelly      | Cullinane   | OASIS                    | Staff                    | Present |
| Kelsey     | Schulte     | Intel                    | Voting Member            | Present |
| Kristina   | Podnar      | D&TA                     | Voting Member, Secretary | Present |
| Laurie     | Tyzenhaus   | Carnegie Mellon          | Voting Member            | Present |
| Lisa       | Bobbitt     | Cisco                    | Voting Member            | Present |
| Mic        | Bowman      | Intel                    | Non-Voting Member        | Present |
| Michele    | Drgon       | DataProbity              | Non-Voting Member        | Present |
| Stefan     | Hagen       | Individual               | Voting Member            | Present |
| Wyatt      | Schroth     | Blue Street Data         | Voting Member            | Present |

### Voting Rights Status

- **Members at risk of losing voting rights if absent at next meeting:**
  - Saira Jesani  
  - Greg Ott  
  - Duncan Sparrell  
  - Jautau White  
  - Roman Zhukov

## IV. Work Approved Between Meetings

- Meeting minutes from May 6, 2025 were formally adopted via lazy consensus
- PR #17 (Use Case Template) was circulated ahead of the meeting for review
- Proposal to restructure the contributions directory was shared via email for discussion (PR #18)

## V. Motions Passed

- **Approval of PR #17**  
  The committee formally adopted PR #17, establishing the initial template for the Use Case Committee Note

- **Contributor folder structure**  
  The committee approved the addition of contributor-level folders within the `contributions/` directory to maintain clarity of source and attribution, and changes will result in PR #18.

## VI. Contributions Discussion

- Kristina introduced David Kempâ€™s proposal to track individual contributions with subfolders
- Stefan supported the structure with caveats for small derivative changes
- Lisa and Kelly emphasized the importance of attribution and traceability
- Adopted structure: `contributions/<source>/<item>`

## VII. Licensing Discussion

- Stefan defaulted to MIT for his contributions
- Bryan noted Apache may offer stronger attribution for future official work
- The group agreed to continue using MIT (or one's prefered license) for contributions and to revisit license structure as needed

## VIII. Use Case Development

- Lisa invited members to submit use cases using the approved PR #17 template
- Goal is to complete a first round of use cases by the end of June
- Kristina will share role-based use cases from D&TA
- Wyatt emphasized the importance of use cases tailored to specific user roles

## IX. Executive Briefing Workstream

- Bryan and Andy will co-lead drafting of the executive brief
- The team aims to complete the first version by end of June
- Kelsey (Intel) will look internally for useful examples
- Lisa (Cisco) is reaching out to CoSAI for executive brief samples and guidance
- Additional volunteers are encouraged to join this outreach-focused workstream

## X. Metadata Elements & Information Modeling

- Dave presented a conceptual information model to guide metadata schema and tool development
- Stefan cautioned against premature standardization and emphasized flexibility and clarity in modeling
- Kristina supported an iterative approach grounded in real-world adoption
- Members will review GitHub Issue #7 and share feedback ahead of next meeting

## XI. Action Items

| Who            | Action                                                           |
|:---------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| All Members    | Review GitHub Issue #7 and contribute feedback                   |
| All Members    | Review PR #17 template and begin submitting use cases            |
| All Members    | Use updated contributor-level folder structure                   |
| Bryan & Andy   | Convene executive briefing drafting group                        |
| Dave & Stefan  | Continue modeling and prep for demo or walkthrough               |
| Kelsey         | Check internally for effective executive brief examples          |
| Kristina       | Share role-based use cases with Lisa                             |
| Kristina/Kelly | Resolve calendar invite issues ahead of June 3 meeting           |
| Lisa           | Reach out to CoSAI for example executive briefs guidance (input) |

## XII. Upcoming Meeting

**Date:** June 3, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00 AM EDT  
**Cadence:** Biweekly  
**Note:** Contact Kristina or Kelly if you did not receive a calendar invite
