# Data Provenance Standards Technical Committee Meeting

**Meeting Date:** April 22, 2025
**Time:** (16:00 CET, 14:00 UTC, 10:00 EDT, 7:00 PDT)

**Chairs:** 
- Bryan Bortnick (IBM)
- Lisa Bobbitt (Cisco)
- Fotis Psallidas (Microsoft)

**Secretary:**
- Kristina Podar (Data & Trust Alliance)

**Presentation used during the meeting:**  
[View Google Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wOMNZ0w20vILf2OE_TmhTwZ7eOw7YPvcU25_CheSIZo/edit?usp=sharing)

---
## I. Call to Order and Welcome

- Kristina, Bryan, Lisa, and Fortis called the meeting to order
- Permission to record meeting was asked/given and meeting was recorded

## II. Attendance
Remember to use https://groups.oasis-open.org/communities/community-home/recent-community-events?communitykey=2c60b2cf-45d3-48cd-8594-0194f182b33d to record your attendence.

- Leave of Absence:
   * none
- Quorum for meeting is 10 or more of the 20 voting Members
- Quorum was reached with 18 voting Members present.
- Members who became eligible to receive voting rights at this meeting:
   * none
- Members who attended who will receive voting rights if they attend next meeting:
   * Mic Bowman
   * Michele Drgon
   * Jassim Happa
   * Peter Koen  
- Members who lost voting rights after this meeting:
   * none
- Members are at risk of losing voting rights if they fail to attend the next meeting:
   * Kirk Dunkleberger
   * Saira Jesani
   * John Sabo
   * Jay White
- PNVM present at the meeting:
   * none
- OASIS Staff present at the meeting:
   * Kelly Cullinane
- Observers present at the meeting:
   + none

### Participants

| Given Name | Family Name | Affiliation | Role | Present |
|:-----------|:------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------|:---------|
| **Voting Members** | | | |
| Lisa | Bobbitt | Cisco | Voting Member | Present |
| Bryan | Bortnick | IBM | Voting Member | Present |
| Fotis | Psallidas | Microsoft | Voting Member, Co-Chair | Present |
| Kristina | Podnar | D&TA | Voting Member, Secretary | Present |
| Carlyn | Connolly | D&TA | Voting Member | Present |
| Kate | Gallo | Blue Street Data | Voting Member | Present |
| Stefan | Hagen | Individual | Voting Member | Present |
| Andy | Hannah | Blue Street Data | Voting Member | Present |
| David | Kemp | National Security Agency | Voting Member | Present |
| Bryan | Kyle | IBM | Voting Member | Present |
| Greg | Ott | NSA | Voting Member | Present |
| Wyatt | Schroth | Blue Street Data | Voting Member | Present |
| Kelsey | Schulte | Intel | Voting Member | Present |
| Duncan | Sparrell | sFractal | Voting Member | Present |
| Laurie | Tyzenhaus | Carnegie Mellon | Voting Member | Present |
| Jay | White | Microsoft | Voting Member | Absent |
| Roman | Zhukov | Red Hat | Voting Member | Present |
| **Non-Voting Members** | | | |
| Peter | Koen | org | Non-Voting Member | Present |
| Jassim | Happa | Royal Holloway | Non-Voting Member | Present |
| Mic | Bowman | Intel | Non-Voting Member | Present |
| Michele | Drgon | DataProbity | Non-Voting Member | Present |
| **OASIS Staff** | | | |
| Kelly | Cullinane | OASIS | staff | Present |
| **Observer** | | | |
| none | | | |

**DPS TC Voting Rights Tracking sheet:**  
[View Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HQXa69nD3AI5DoR6iOpUgrICzEj9erCMoaKhdgUbKzc/edit?usp=sharing)

---

## III. Agenda

- Welcome & Introductions  
- Roll Call and Quorum Confirmation  
- Approval of April 8 Meeting Minutes  
- Status of Contributions from Data & Trust Alliance  
- Discussion of Proposed Work Products  
- Repository and GitHub Organization  
- Committee Specification Structure and Tooling

---

## IV. Work approved between meetings
A ballot was conducted via email and there were no objections to establising a TC GitHub repo.
OASIS staff establised the repo https://github.com/oasis-tcs/dps

## V. Minutes

The April 8, 2025 meeting minutes (circulated via email) were adopted without objection.

## VI. Contributions
Kristina confirmed Data & Trust Alliance contributions include:
- Executive Overview  
- Data Provenance Standards Documents  
- Metadata Generator Tool (Azure-hosted)  
- Use Cases  
- GitHub zip archive of the full contribution

Duncan clarified that uploading via the document repository with email notification qualifies as a formal contribution under OASIS IP rules. These materials became usable in TC discussions but have not yet been formally accepted as TC work products.

---

### Motions Passed

- **Establish an open repository for Metadata Generator:**  
  Motion passed to create a separate OASIS Open repository for hosting the Metadata Generator tool as open source.

- **Establish GitHub pages for a public-facing executive brief:**  
  A separate repo will be created for outward communications and adoption materials based on the executive briefing.

- **Provisional acceptance of base documents:**  
  A provisional agreement was reached to use the Data Provenance Specification and Use Cases documents as baseline input for committee specifications (to be formalized later).

- **Standing rule on pull request process:**  
  Pull requests to draft specs require a second and a one-week public review for consensus before merging.  
  Repository maintainers may maintain the contributions directory without full TC approval.

---

### Key Discussion Points

- **OASIS Work Product Process:**  
  Duncan and Kelly clarified the process of formalizing committee specifications, including the need for selecting editors and file formats.  
  Kelly will provide template documents for TC members to review prior to finalizing work product structures.

- **Spec Structuring Recommendations:**  
  Treating the specification and use cases as separate committee specifications was recommended and agreed to.  
  Discussion of using an information model as a central artifact from which different data encodings (JSON, XML, etc.) are derived will be taken up outside of this meeting.

- **Work Product Definitions (Pending Formal Motion):**
  - Data Provenance Specification (Standards Track)  
  - Use Cases (Standards Track or Committee Note)  
  - Metadata Generator (Open-Source Tool)  
  - Public-Facing Executive Brief (Awareness/Adoption, not a standard)

---

## VII. Action Items

- **Kelly:** Send out OASIS spec templates to the mailing list.  
- **Kristina:** Coordinate uploading contributions and sharing access.  
- **TC Members:** Review materials and prepare feedback before the next meeting.  
- **Kelly:** Send calendar invites for recurring meetings.  
- **Kristina:** Initiate call for spec editors via email.  
- **Absent TC Members:** Must advise if the proposed biweekly meeting cadence at 10am EDT does not work for their schedules; otherwise, cadence will be adopted.

---

## VIII. Upcoming Meetings

- **Date:** May 6, 2025  
- **Time:** 10:00 AM EDT  
- **Cadence:** Biweekly  
- **Note:** Members are to notify the TC if the time zone poses challenges.
